# T2DiACoD: A Gene Atlas of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Associated Complex Disorders
T2DiACoD is an atlas of genes reported to be directly or indirectly associated with complications under diabetic conditions namely atherosclerosis, diabetic nephropathy, diabetic neuropathy, diabetic retinopathy, cardiovascular. 
Abstract
We performed integrative analysis of genes associated with type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (T2DM) associated complications by automated text mining with manual curation and also gene expression analysis from Gene Expression Omnibus. They were analysed for pathogenic or protective role, trends, interaction with risk factors, Gene Ontology enrichment and tissue wise differential expression. The database T2DiACoD houses 650 genes, and 34 microRNAs associated with T2DM complications. Seven genes _AGER_, _TNFRSF11B_, _CRK_, _PON1_, _ADIPOQ_, _CRP_ and _NOS3_ are associated with all 5 complications. Several genes are studied in multiple years in all complications with high proportion in cardiovascular (75.8%) and atherosclerosis (51.3%). T2DM Patients’ skeletal muscle tissues showed high fold change in differentially expressed genes. Among the differentially expressed genes, VEGFA is associated with several complications of T2DM. A few genes _ACE2_, _ADCYAP1_, _HDAC4_, _NCF1_, _NFE2L2_, _OSM_, _SMAD1_, _TGFB1_, _BDNF_, _SYVN1_, _TXNIP_, _CD36_, _CYP2J2_, _NLRP3_ with details of protective role are catalogued. Obesity is clearly a dominant risk factor interacting with the genes of T2DM complications followed by inflammation, diet and stress to variable extents. 
link to article https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-017-07238-0
